---
title: 26浙江高英首考语法填空分析笔记（上）
published: 2026-03-31
description: 语法填空考点分析
tags:
  - Grammar
  - English
category: Summary
draft: false
---

>There are few people who could find joy in waiting for a microwave (微波炉)  
> _**56**_ (finish) heating, but my mum did it.
>One of my earliest memories is being held _**57**_ her arms, counting down the flashing green _**58**_ (number) together.
> Mum is small, but I remember feeling so high up there. She would dance us left and right around the kitchen, our eyes _**59**_ (watch) the microwave like it was a space rocket countdown, _**60**_ (excite) and tension building to that final moment: BEEP!
> The microwave had a loud alarm, but we overshadowed that noise with our own performance, tipping our heads back and shouting into the air – a scream _**61**_ always ended in laughter.
> My mum would find fun even when completing the most boring of tasks: I remember _**62**_ (push) in a supermarket trolley (手推车) over _**63**_ uneven car park ground like riding a rollercoaster.
> She would speed up, the wind blowing our hair back _**64**_ my tiny voice singing out, “Weeee-eee-eee!”
> I realise now that Mum didn’t find the joy in these tasks: she created it. Who cares if neighbours can hear you singing along to a microwave? Life is full of so many _**65**_ (seeming) uneventful moments, but we can turn any of them into a celebration.


>There are few people who could find joy in waiting for a microwave (微波炉)    56  <font color = #FF7F00>to finish</font>(finish) heating, but my mum did it. 
- **non-finite**, infinitive
- There be句型，who引导定从修饰people,
- to do. 表预期

> One of my earliest memories is being held    <font color = #FF7F00>in</font> 57    her arms, 
- **prep. **

>counting down the flashing green   <font color = #FF7F00>numbers</font>  58     (number) together. Mum is small, but I remember feeling so high up there. 
- **n.(pl)  **

> She would dance us left and right around the kitchen, our eyes  <font color = #FF7F00>watching</font>   59     (watch) the microwave 
- **non-finite,**

> like it was a space rocket countdown,   <font color = #FF7F00>excitement</font>  60    (excite) and tension building to that final moment: BEEP! 
- **part of speech**,
- **and 连接并列成分**,excitement and tension

> The microwave had a loud alarm, but we overshadowed that noise with our own performance, tipping our heads back and shouting into the air-a scream  <font color = #FF7F00>that/which</font>  61     always ended in laughter.
- **relative clause**
- **sentence structure**,主语we,overshadowed谓语，两个v-ing短语做伴随状语，先行词a scream是物,且从句句子成分不完整，关系词选that/which指代a scream

> My mum would find fun even when completing the most boring of tasks.
>  I remember 62 <font color = #FF7F00>being pushed</font>  (push) in a supermarket trolley (手推车) over the    63    uneven car park ground like riding a rollercoaster. 
- **non-finite**，I主语，remember谓语，push和逻辑主语动作表被动，remember sth.
- **art. ,特指**

> She would speed up, the wind blowing our hair back    <font color = #FF7F00>and</font> 64    my tiny voice singing out, “Weeee-eee-eee!”
- **conj.**
- She would speed up是主句，the wind-my voice;blowing back-singing out并列成分

> I realise now that Mum didn’t find the joy in these tasks: she created it. Who cares if neighbours can hear you singing along to a microwave? 
> Life is full of so many 65 <font color = #FF7F00>seemingly</font>  (seeming) uneventful moments, but we can turn any of them into a celebration.
- **adv.,part of speech **